{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f67\froman\fcharset0\fprq0 CG Times (WN);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive\f67\fs16\up6 \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s16 \f67\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext16 
footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}}{\info{\author Edward A Miller}{\creatim\yr1995\mo3\dy27\hr18\min40}{\version1}{\edmins39}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49203}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4 {\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {
\cs15\fs16\up6 #} CONTENTS}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 $} Contents}}{\fs20  }{\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 K} Contents}}{\fs20  }{\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 
\f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 +} MOSHEHELP:005}}{\fs20  }{\b\f5 Contents}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par The contents list all of the help topics for Moshe's Insanity.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\f5\fs20 How To Play
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 \tab }{\f5\fs20\uldb\cf11 Overview}{\v\f5\fs20\cf11 HELP_OVERVIEW}{\f5\fs20 
\par \tab }{\f5\fs20\uldb\cf11 Playing the Game}{\v\f5\fs20\cf11 HELP_PLAY}{\f5\fs20\uldb 
\par }{\f5\fs20 \tab }{\f5\fs20\uldb\cf11 Strategy and Hints}{\v\f5\fs20\cf11 HELP_STRATEGY}{\f5\fs20\uldb 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\b\f5\fs20 Commands
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 \tab }{\f5\fs20\uldb\cf11 Game Menu Commands}{\v\f5\fs20\cf11 HELP_GAME_MENU}{\f5\fs20\uldb 
\par }{\f5\fs20 \page }{\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 #} HELP_OVERVIEW}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 $} Overview}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 K} Overview}+
{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 +} MOSHEHELP:010}}{\f5\fs20  }{\b\f5 Overview}{\f5\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par Written by Shaun Miller in November/December 1994.  Help was added in the spring of 1995.
\par 
\par Moshe's Insanity is a problem first proposed to me by one of my instructors at Pacific Lutheran University, Moshe Rosenfeld.  It resembles the game of Insanity, although admittedly very remotely.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
The games starts with 8 cubes across the top of the screen.  Each cube is colored with 6 colors:  red, green, blue, cyan, magenta, and yellow.  There are 30 distinct colorings possible.  The 8 cubes across the top of the screen are randomly selected from 
these 30 colorings with duplicates allowed.  Of course, each time the game is selected, the solution is computed before you ever get to see it, so every game you play is solvable.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 \tab 
Each of the 8 small cubes may be rotated and then placed into the large cube at the bottom of the screen.  The goal of the game is to place the 8 cubes in the large cube such that each face on the large cube is a single color and that all six colors are 
represented on the exterior of the large cube.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 \page }{\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 #} HELP_PLAY}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 $} Playing the Game}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 K}
 Playing the Game}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 +} MOSHEHELP:015}}{\f5\fs20  }{\b\f5 Playing the Game}{\f5\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Rotating a Small Cube}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 A small cube must be located in one of the positions across 
the top of the screen before it may be rotated.  Simply position the mouse cursor over the cube you wish to rotate and click the left mouse button.  This will select the cube to rotate.  You should see the a thick square around the cube you have selected.
  Then click one of the buttons along the bottom of the screen to rotate the cube.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Rotating the Large Cube}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 The large cube rotates in place.  Of course, all small cubes in the large cube will rotate with the large cube.  Select the large cube by positionin
g the mouse cursor over it and clicking the left mouse button.  Then click one of the buttons along the bottom of the screen to rotate the cube.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Moving a Small Cube Into the Large Cube}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
Position the mouse cursor over the cube you wish to move.  Click and hold the left mouse button down.  With the mouse button down, drag the cube toward the large cube.  When the small cube is near the large cube, a gray cube will appear in the large cube 
marking the location where the small cube will be placed when the left mouse button is released.  As the small cube is moved around the large cube, the gray marker cube will move as well.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par There is one quirk that may make dropping the cube somewhat confusing.  When the small cube is at the top of the screen, there is a vertical edge of the cube that faces toward you.  That edge will be aligned with the outside edge of the large cube regardl
ess of the position in which the small cube is placed.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Moving a Small Cube Out of the Large Cube}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 Position the mouse cursor over the smal
l cube within the large cube you wish to move.  Click and hold the left mouse button down.  After a hesitation, the small cube will be lifted out of the large cube and it may be placed in any unoccupied place in the large cube or back at the top of the sc
reen.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 When You Win}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 When you solve the puzzle, a message appears at the bottom of the screen notifying you.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 \page }{\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 #} HELP_STRATEGY}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 $} Strategy and Hints}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 K}
 Strategy; Hints}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 +} MOSHEHELP:020}}{\f5\fs20  }{\b\f5 Strategy and Hints}{\f5\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 Solving the puzzle can be a tedious operation if your initial guesses are incorrect.  The best strategy to finding a solu
tion is to first pick the six colors of the large cube.  You do this by picking two of the small cubes and arranging them in the large cube such that one is on the bottom row, and the other is on the opposing corner on the top row.  If the cubes have been
 rotated correctly, the colors of the faces of the large cube have now been determined.  From this point, be methodical in the arrangement of the remaining cubes to ensure you have covered all possible combinations. 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par If the first try is unsuccessful, remove all cubes from the large cube, rotate the same two cubes you used to determine the face colors of the large cube in the previous try, and repeat the process.
\par \page }{\cs15\f67\fs20\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 #} HELP_GAME_MENU}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 $} Game Menu Commands}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 K}
 Game;Menu;Commands;Solve;Reset;Exit;New}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16 \f67\fs20 {\cs15\fs16\up6 +} MOSHEHELP:025}}{\f5\fs20  }{\b\f5 Game Menu Commands}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 New
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 Randomly chooses 8 new cubes and starts a new game.
\par 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Reset}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 Merely removes all small cubes from the large cube (if any) and places them back at the top of the screen.  This option allows an easy way to start over on the same game.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Solve}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 Provides an animated solution to the current game.  During the animation, the Exit and Help menu options are still available.
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard \sl360\slmult1 {\b\f5\fs20 Exit}{\f5\fs20 
\par }\pard {\f5\fs20 Quits Moshe's Insanity (same as Close from the system menu).
\par 
\par }}